let's now speak to Tamara Ali who's a
spokesperson for the United Nations
relief and works agency unra she's
joining us from Aman in Jordan very good
to have you with us Tamara I guess I
want to get your thoughts first uh to
the about these new provisional measures
the by the icj uh requesting for Israel
to increase Aid into Gaza ordering in
fact Israel to increase Aid into Gaza
you are all hopeful that the Israelis
will
comply we are doing all we can to ensure
that uh the humanitarian assistance
especially food and medical supplies are
getting into Gaza at the scale that the
current catastrophic humanitarian
situation requires you I did hear in
your report uh the reference to what the
UN said about famine settling into Gaza
we can speak about an entire population
that is food insecure and half of that
entire population so 1.1 million people
having exhausted Their Food Supplies
they have nothing in their tents because
most of that population is displaced
anyway we're hearing about infants dying
of Mal nourishment and dehydration and
we're also hearing about nursing mothers
no longer producing milk baby formula is
not easily available in Gaza and the
water is often contaminated yeah we know
about these needs and challenges which
are immense of course
what we want to know is how are you not
able to prevent I mean to to deliver Aid
to the people who need it in Gaza how is
Israel preventing your organization unra
from delivering this urgently needed Aid
because they claimed uh that you haven't
applied for Access for
example about a week ago the Israeli
authorities announced that they were no
longer going to cooperate with un with
the largest humanitarian agency
currently in Gaza this for us is an
impediment and a really official
impediment official impediment to our
ability to continue providing life
saving food and medical supplies over
the last week five of our requests to
access the north of Gaza which is almost
entirely sealed off with food assistance
were denied by the Israeli government
therefore we are finding that our
operational Space is really shrinking
however unra is still present in ra and
as a reminder un has shelters in RAF
where we distribute food and we want to
continue being able to do that did the
Israelis uh Tamara give you any
explanation as to why they wouldn't uh
Grant you access to Northern
Gaza no explanation and we continue to
ask and we continue to push and we
continue to get support by donors by
governments by private donors in
including those who want to donate zakat
to unra therefore we do have the
infrastructure we do have the logistics
and mostly we have so many trucks parked
currently in Alish waiting to go in we
have the staff 3,000 people we have the
shelters over 100 so we can do it so we
are advocating with the Israeli
government and With Friends of the
Israeli government to help us continue
our work yeah some Aid has gone G in in
the past few months through the the the
border crossings but in recent weeks
we've also seen a number of countries
including the US Jordan Spain resort to
airdrops of humanitarian Aid does that
help at all is it effective on the
ground any attempt to get food into Gaza
is something that we highly welcome but
we really want to confirm that the
easiest and the safest and the most
economical way is to use the land rout
and the uh and the land Crossings and
this is what we have been calling for
since the beginning tonight today it is
so much easier to get food in using if
if different land Crossings open
airdrops are symbolic and are a way to
say we will bring food into Gaza against
the odds but really getting the trucks
that are already parked in alishan
already packed into Gaza and trying to
lighten the very cumbersome Inspection
St inspection procedures by the
israelies would be the easiest and the
cheapest way for a to go in right but
we've heard the Israeli body responsible
for implementing the government's uh
civilian policy in Gaza say that there
is no limit to the amount of Aid that
can enter Gaza is that the case talk to
us about the these uh the process
itself the average number of trucks that
have gone into Gaza today in March
either from ra or abim k Shalom is
155 trucks every day that is way below
the minimum required 500 trucks to go in
every day and therefore both the order
of the icj but also the latest un
security cancer resolution very clearly
called for an increase at scale
humanitarian food Medical Supply Access
into Gaza we are very far from it thank
you very much for talking to us Tamara
Alvi spokesperson for un joining us
there from Aman thank you for your time